I'm working with students, I'm not standing with a whip, on those three topics to get finished and I shall feel, gosh, I've used up all my ideas.
Now it is certainly time to retire.
As you look back, of your research accomplishments, of which are you most proud?
I would say we tried to help very much in these analyses of topical conditions for the army.
I think the one that may have the most far-reaching effects if it is publicised in the right areas
is the one I'm working on now with my last PhD student who chose from his own interests I didn't twist his arm to study the prediction of rainfall in the whole of Eastern Africa
and as a result of his dissertation we have some very very good leads that if used properly will enable people to be able to get some idea
of what their rainy seasons are going to be a number of months before they come now of course it's meteorology it's not a hundred percent but it's turned out to be about 80 to 85 percent correct and i think we're unlikely to be capable to get very much better than this and so we're working on trying to write this up because i feel that this will be of direct benefit
to a region that needs all the help it can get from scientists in various branches in order to survive.
And so, perhaps I can sum it up and say, hopefully, Haskell, the best is yet to come.
Which course of instruction did you enjoy most?
Can I give you two answers?
you know meteorologists they always give two answers one's yes one's no.
In undergraduate it has been working with through the classes something like 2500 architects and pointing out to them where knowledge not deep-seated but almost general knowledge of the atmosphere could help
in designing houses to save energy and cost.
And that has been very rewarding, because many have kept in touch and said how they have enjoyed this.
That's one.
Of the graduate courses, it has been the agricultural meteorology.
Not the least of which reason is that we've had smaller classes, of course, naturally,
but they have been students from so many of the branches of agriculture and from a number of countries.
that have kept in touch or been able to help them over the years and they would come forward with the problems of their region or their discipline and talk about some insect that I hardly ever heard of and what its life cycle was and how could they find out things about this and for
the sort of environment that that lava or flying insect if it was at that stage.
What was it experiencing?
What was driving it?
And I suppose that dated from my Desert Locust days, of course.
But those were two very rewarding to me courses.
I'm almost finished.
I've got three or four questions.
What have we not covered that you had made some notes about you want to be sure to include?
One thing I suppose I must say is that I feel that it is very important
For people who may spend 90% of their time teaching, I still feel it is very important for them to publish.
I personally have found the time to publish about 11 books, and many, many, I don't know, 80 referee papers or something like that.
But this communication, so that it's put out there
and your peers or those who might want to use it can look at it and say, there's something in there I can use, or, and this can happen,
well, that's not what I wanted.
I can forget that.
This is a blessing with the internet now.
Library searches and so on, as we used to call them years ago.
And I think that that is something that is very good to see nowadays.
But I don't think... I feel that each faculty member could write a book in their subjects.
And I don't think it would be a bad thing for them.
Of those books, of which one are you most proud?
One that introduced people to the realization that instruments were different, as I mentioned, for the upper atmosphere than they were for the environment.
So the one with Dr. Platt, the one that kept going the longest,
was for Oxford University Press, it went for over 25 years and was updated and so on, just called Applied Climatology because it introduced, and I know this, sort of the man in the street more to
aspects that they hadn't necessarily thought of.
The last one, Oxford University first gave me the opportunity, I said, what would you like to write on now?
And that was a handbook of agricultural meteorology, where I was able, coming towards the end of my
career to draw in many many people two or three from here as well to write certain chapters and while writing some myself in that field because there was nothing readily available and I made sure that they each had a lot of references at the end of their chapter so that people could
take it from there and so I fear I have been extremely fortunate enjoying the time the topic working with such good colleagues all the way around and now perhaps I'm given a few more years to draw everything to a close and say well I'm satisfied now this is it and
Starting in mathematics at the beginning, which is, you know, such a pure subject, I think I've followed the right path for me.
That's it.
And if you ever get to a point where you want to discard any memorabilia, I would beg you to please think of the Texas A&M Archives, because they would care for it and preserve it, and it would be available to people.
Then let me ask you this question.
Let's make believe that someone came up to you and gave you a million-dollar check, and there was only one requirement.
You had to pass it on to Texas A&M, but you could decide the use that would be made of that gift.
What would you have A&M do with that gift?
Turn it into student fellowships or scholarships.
In what conditions, if any?
Because I admire all the people who work here, I would leave it really... I would like to say to the departments separately, but of course we have so many departments it would water down and not become very much.
Being, as you've gleaned from what I have said, a person who
really stresses interdisciplinary.
If anything, I would say students studying an interdisciplinary subject, or interdisciplinary subjects.
To be awarded on the basis of what?
Ability?
Need?
What?
I would like it to be on both of those, and the ability
would be judged by having the person write X pages of what they wanted to do in detail, no plagiarising off the internet, preferably to get them to sit down like we used to do in the old days and we'd have an hour and they'd give you three subjects to write a composition on, you can pick any one you like,
Go!
And also then a follow-up with a three-man, three-person, sorry, I misspoke again, a three-person committee to discuss that with them.
And as I say, because I have respect for each of the people, unknown to me, award made on that rec meeting.
One has to have some belief in grades and so on, but I'm sure in your discipline you have also agonized on this, that when we draw a graph of what
people come with an SAT or whatever, GPR or whatever, and what they actually do, there's hardly any correlation.
And even from my own experience I quote two examples of an outstanding undergraduate student who came to work with me for his graduate work.
And it was agony.
And then an undergraduate student that I enjoyed, but I had to back away from him a bit.
And he wasn't great as great go.
And I came home one day to Joe and said, so-and-so is coming back.
And he wants to do his master's with me.
Oh dear, what have I done to deserve this?
I couldn't have been more wrong.
One of the best devoted graduate students.
You turned it on.
Have we left out anything else that you wanted to be sure to include?
All I have in front of me here was some of the chronology to jog my memory, but a lot is included, almost all of that is included in here in the 30 years.
My last question then.
What feelings do you have about Texas A&M now, after these 30, almost 40 years?
How could I have been so lucky?
That's it.
Thank you.